James 4:2-10

	2 You want something but don't get it. You kill and covet, but you cannot have what you want. You quarrel and fight. You do not have, because you do not ask God.

	3 When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures.

	4 You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God.

	5 Or do you think Scripture says without reason that the spirit he caused to live in us envies intensely?*

	6 But he gives us more grace. That is why Scripture says: "God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble."*

	7 Submit yourselves, then, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

	8 Come near to God and he will come near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.

	9 Grieve, mourn and wail. Change your laughter to mourning and your joy to gloom.

	10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up.


Luke 11:1-13

	1 One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he finished, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples."

	2 He said to them, "When you pray, say: " `Father,* hallowed be your name, your kingdom come.*

	3 Give us each day our daily bread.

	4 Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us.* And lead us not into temptation.* ' "

	5 Then he said to them, "Suppose one of you has a friend, and he goes to him at midnight and says, `Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,

	6 because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him.'

	7 "Then the one inside answers, `Don't bother me. The door is already locked, and my children are with me in bed. I can't get up and give you anything.'

	8 I tell you, though he will not get up and give him the bread because he is his friend, yet because of the man's boldness* he will get up and give him as much as he needs.

	9 "So I say to you: Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you.

	10 For everyone who asks receives; he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, the door will be opened.

	11 "Which of you fathers, if your son asks for* a fish, will give him a snake instead?

	12 Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?

	13 If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!"

Original Article found at http://www.cotsk.org/archives/specialstudies/ImportanceOfPrayer.html


2CH 7:14
	14 if my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.

DT 4:7
	7 What other nation is so great as to have their gods near them the way the LORD our God is near us whenever we pray to him?


EZR 6:9-10
	9  Whatever is needed--young bulls, rams, male lambs for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, and wheat, salt, wine and oil, as requested by the priests in Jerusalem--must be given them daily without fail,

	10  so that they may offer sacrifices pleasing to the God of heaven and pray for the well-being of the king and his sons


JOB 22:26-27
	26 Surely then you will find delight in the Almighty and will lift up your face to God.

	27 You will pray to him, and he will hear you, and you will fulfill your vows.


Job 42:8
	8 So now take seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job and sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you, and I will accept his prayer and not deal with you according to your folly. You have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has."



PS 32:6
	5 Then I acknowledged my sin to you and did not cover up my iniquity. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD"-- and you forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah

	6 Therefore let everyone who is godly pray to you while you may be found; surely when the mighty waters rise, they will not reach him.


ISA 64:9
	9 Do not be angry beyond measure, O LORD; do not remember our sins forever. Oh, look upon us, we pray, for we are all your people.


JER 29:11-13
	11 For I know the plans I have for you," declares the LORD, "plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.

	12 Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you.

	13 You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart.


MT 26:41
	"Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak."


LK 18:1-8
	1 Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray and not give up.

	2 He said: "In a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor cared about men.

	3 And there was a widow in that town who kept coming to him with the plea, `Grant me justice against my adversary.'

	4 "For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, `Even though I don't fear God or care about men,

	5 yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice, so that she won't eventually wear me out with her coming!' "

	6 And the Lord said, "Listen to what the unjust judge says.

	7 And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off?

	8 I tell you, he will see that they get justice, and quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth?"

LK 21:36
	36 Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man."


1TH 5:14-17
	14 And we urge you, brothers, warn those who are idle, encourage the timid, help the weak, be patient with everyone.

	15 Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong, but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else.

	16 Be joyful always;

	17 pray continually;

	18 give thanks in all circumstances, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.

JAS 5:13-16
	13 Is any one of you in trouble? He should pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing songs of praise.

	14 Is any one of you sick? He should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord.

	15 And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well; the Lord will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven.

	16 Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective.


1PE 4:7
	7 The end of all things is near. Therefore be clear minded and self-controlled so that you can pray.


JUDE 1:20-21
	20 But you, dear friends, build yourselves up in your most holy faith and pray in the Holy Spirit.

	21 Keep yourselves in God's love as you wait for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you to eternal life.

